<h3>What is libhoro?</h3>

libhoro is a simple cross platform C library that allows developers to easily schedule actions
(callbacks) based on a descriptive cron style string.  The design of libhoro is such that it can
easily integrate into any program event loop.

<h3>What does horo mean?</h3>

Horo is short for horology.  Horology is the study of time.  We thought it would be a clever name.

<h3>Can I see an example of how it works?</h3>

Absolutely.  Below is a short explanation of how to use libhoro. Also, the test program
[/doc/trunk/src/cronprint.c|cronprint.c] is a very simple example of using the libhoro interface.

<ol>
  <li> 
    Declare and initialze a horo pointer.  horo_init() will allocate memory
    so the horo_clock_t must be destroyed with horo_destroy.
    <verbatim>
      horo_clock_t* clock = NULL;
      HORO_ERROR err = horo_init(&clock)
    </verbatim>
  </li>
  <li>
    Declare and implement an action callback which will be executed as
    described in the cron schedule string.  This particular action
    callback prints a timestamp and a string that is passed to the
    callback as actionData.  As shown in the next step, actionData can
    be linked to an action callback when scheduling the action.
    <verbatim>
      void printCB(void* actionData)
      {
          time_t rawTime;
          struct tm* timeinfo;

          rawTime = time(NULL);
          timeinfo = localtime(&rawTime);
          fprintf(stdout, "%s: %s\n", asctime(timeinfo), (char*)actionData);
      }
    </verbatim>
  </li>
  <li>
    Schedule the action using a cron string to describe the schedule.  The 
    following list describes the parameters to horo_scheduldeAction()
    <ol>
      <li>
	<strong>clock</strong>: The horo_clock_t that was created in step 1.
      </li>
      <li>
	<strong>cron string</strong>: The cron string used to describe the 
	schedule for the action.
      </li>
      <li>
	<strong>action callback</strong>: The action callback to be executed
	as described by the cron string.
      </li>
      <li>
	<strong>action data</strong>: A void* pointer that can point to 
	anything.  This pointer will be passed as a parameter to the 
	action callback.
      </li>
      <li>
	<strong>actionID</strong>: An ID that can be used to unschedule the
	action.
      </li>
    </ol>
    <verbatim>
      err = horo_scheduleAction(clock, "*/10 9-14 23 6 *", printCB, "This string is my action data", &actionID);
    </verbatim>
  </li>
  <li>
    Now that the action has been scheduled, the horo_process()
    function needs to be integrated into the application's main event
    loop.  To keep things simple, libhoro pushes all platform specific
    details onto the integrating application.  libhoro simply requires
    that horo_process() be called at least 1 time every minute.  This can
    be implemented however the calling application deems fit. <br />
    <ul>
      <li>A Linux application could use timer_fd and select().</li>
      <li>A Win32 application could use SetTimer() in it's main loop.</li>
      <li>A QT based application could use a QTimer.</li>
    </ul> <br />
    No matter how it is integrated, horo_process() must be called at
    least one time every minute with a horo_time_t structure that
    contains the current time.  A very simple event loop is shown
    below:

    <verbatim>
    while(1)
    {
        /*Retrieve a timestamp.*/
        time_t rawTime = time(NULL);

        /*Break up the time stamp into a timeinfo struct*/
        struct tm* timeinfo = localtime(&rawTime);

        /*horo_time_t must be filled out with the current time.*/
        horo_time_t horoTime;
        horoTime.minute = timeinfo->tm_min;
        horoTime.hour = timeinfo->tm_hour;
        horoTime.dayOfMonth = timeinfo->tm_mday;

        /* !! Notice the +1 !!*/
        horoTime.month = timeinfo->tm_mon + 1;
        horoTime.dayOfWeek = timeinfo->tm_wday;

        /*Will call any necessary actions scheduled for the current horoTime*/
        err = horo_process(clock, &horoTime);
        
        /*Wait until the next minute*/
        delay();
    }
    </verbatim>
    <strong>!!NOTE:</strong> If using localtime() to fill in the
    timeVals structure, you must add 1 to the tm_mon field as shown in
    the example below.  This is because localtime() returns 0-11 and the
    crontab spec expects 1-12.

    <li>
      If an action is no longer needed, it can be unscheduled with the horo_unscheduleAction() API and the
      action ID returned from horo_scheduleAction():
      <verbatim>
          err = horo_unscheduleAction(clock, actionID);
      </verbatim>        
    </li>
    <li>
      Remember, a horo_clock_t object that was initialized with horo_init() 
      must be destroyed with horo_destroy().
      
    </li>
    <verbatim>
	err = horo_destroy(clock);
    </verbatim>
  </li>
</ol>

<h3>What If My Actions Take Longer Than a Minute?</h3>
If your actions take longer than a minute than they should be executed
in a separate thread.  As previously mentioned, horo_process() must
be executed at least once per minute.

<h3>What Happens If I Don't Call horo_process() Every Minute?</h3>
If you don't call horo_process() in a given minute than any action that
should have been executed in that minute will not be executed. In fact,
if multiple actions are scheduled for the same minute, than they must all
finish within 1 minute or execute in a separate thread.

<h3>What Type of Schedule Strings are Supported</h3>
The schedule (cron) strings comply with the [http://www.manpagez.com/man/5/crontab/|crontab man page's] 
description of cron strings. The one major <strong>EXCEPTION</strong> is that week days cannot
be names, they must be values from 0-7.  This is an oversight by the original auther and will
be fixed in future releases.  However, all other extensions are implemented, including '@' strings:
<verbatim>
  "@yearly"
  "@monthly"
  "@weekly"
  "@daily"
  "@hourly"
</verbatim> 

<h3>Is libhoro Thread Safe?</h3>
No, currently flex is used as the cron string lexer which is not thread
safe.  However, actions can certainly spawn their own threads.

<h3>Which Platforms Are Supported?</h3>
Currently Linux and Microsoft Windows.  However, there is plan to
support FreeBSD and other BSDs.  libhoro is written in
C89 so it <strong>should</strong> work on the BSD platforms already, it just
hasn't been thoroughly tested.

<h3>Which Compilers are Supported?</h3>
Currently GCC and Microsoft Visual C.

<h3>How Do I Integrate libhoro Into My Project?</h3>
libHoro is distributed as two files, a header file and a .c amalgamation file which are intended
to be compiled directly into your application or library.  There is currently no pre compiled 
shared library.  Possible compiler commands are shown below.  There are also examples in
[/doc/trunk/src/Makefile|Makefile] for gcc and [/doc/trunk/src/Makefile.msvc|Makefile.msvc].

<h6>Example compiling with gcc</h6>
<verbatim>
    #Note: g++ can be used in place of gcc

    #Create the object file
    gcc -g -O0 -c -o horo-amal.o horo-amal.c 

    #Link object file with application
    gcc -g -ocronprint-amal cronprint.c horo-amal.o
</verbatim>
<h6>Example compiling with gcc</h6>
<verbatim>
    #Note: Compiling with /EHsc for c++ applications is also supported.

    #Create the object file
    cl /nologo /c  horo-amal.c 

    #Link object file with application
    cl /nologo cronprint.c horo-amal.obj
</verbatim>

<h3>I've Found a Bug, How do I Report It?</h3>
You can log into this website as an anonymous user and use the [/tktnew|New Ticket] page
to create a bug report.  

<h3>Is There a Feature RoadMap for libhoro?</h3>
It depends on user feedback, but a rough roadmap is as follows:
<ol>
  <li>
    Add a seconds field to cron strings so that a higher resolution
    schedule is possible.
  </li>
  <li>
    Add support for month and weekday names.
  </li>
  <li>
    Add a syncronous interface.  This implies multi-platform support.
  </li>
</ol>
